With a field like synthetic biology making leaps and bounds every year towards a realization of industrial and commercial use, safety is at the forefront of the minds of individuals deciding whether to start incorporating genetically modified organisms into their daily routines. People want to be certain that this new and exciting opportunity will be safe for both them and their community. Synthetic biologists are no strangers to safety themselves while working with biohazardous materials and inside high-tech biology labs, but sometimes the safety of the end-goal, products, and processes utilized by people every day can elude even the most well-thought-out projects. This page hopes to help these projects work towards a safe implementation by logically breaking down and analyzing their safety concerns using Safety Cases (Cohen et al, 2016).

Safety Cases take their design strategy from the aeronautics and software engineering communities (Kelly and Weaver, 2004) where they can also be seen under the title Assurance Arguments using Goal Structuring Notation (GSN). There they are used to ensure the safety of various parts of the aircraft and target certain problem areas in the functions and dangers of the process of flight. Unlike aeronautics, synthetic biologists do not have to worry about engine and wing design or console displays, but they do have to worry about accidental release of bacteria and plasmid conjugation as well as other concerns. As synthetic biology grows to new heights and levels of complexity, the number of safety concerns a single project or application needs to address will also grow. Just as people trust the engineering of an airplane despite the many risks, Safety Cases can help people who use genetically modified organisms feel confident that what they are using is safe.