Safety Cases use an organized combination of structural units to help build arguments that prove the root goal of a project is safe. These units include Goal, Strategy, Context, Justification, Assumption, and Solution (Kelly and Weaver, 2004). Each safety case begins with a single root Goal (usually stating that some project is safe) with Context units for the intended environmental conditions of the organism and the species and strain of the organism in use.

**A Strategy** is then used to break that Goal down into smaller sub-Goals that each address a aspect of the project. (Many times, one can’t explore all of the identified hazards in a situation. In this case, one would use a diamond (mentioned below) to symbolize the fact that there may be things in this area that need to be considered further.).

**Justifications** can be used to provide reasoning for a certain Strategy or Goal by reminding the viewer of certain facts established elsewhere. If a Strategy is “Argument over kill-switch parts” and is used with the Goal “Organism is safe in case of accidental release” and a sub-Goal “Organism is killed in the presence of 0.5 mM of HCl”, a Justification could further enhance the sub-Goal by stating “0.5 mM of HCl is not found in the intended environment”. Likewise, Assumptions can be used to narrow the scope of a Strategy or Goal. A good use of the Assumptions might be to state that one is assuming that some toxic chemical is not going to be added to the intended environment. One should also include these parameters in the initial Context units at the root of the Safety Case.

**Solutions** are used to provide closure to Goals, their parent-Goals, and Safety Cases themselves. They can take the form of experimental data, modeling data, etc. The specific type of Solution that should be used is determined by the Goal they are solving and ultimately, the person filling out the Safety Case.

If a creator of a Safety Case wishes to convey that a certain Goal or Strategy is not fully developed and needs more consideration before finalization, they attach a diamond onto the unit. A diamond on a Goal can denote a need to think of more Strategies, and a diamond on a Strategy can denote a need to think of more sub-Goals. Diamonds do not necessarily mean that a creator did not think about a branch of a Safety Case. It only means that the creator of the Safety Case is addressing a need for more consideration.